Handling errors locally in components makes sense a lot because you probably want to do different things
with errors depending on which component you're at.
Maybe here you want to show something went wrong and an integral component you want to show something
different.
But sometimes in some places you maybe want to execute some code globally.
So no matter which HTP request you send from within which component you want to do something when that
request gets sent and or when the response returns.
You can do it with X years with the help of so-called interest setters.
These are functions you can define globally which will be executed for every request leaving your app
and every response returning into it.
It is especially useful for example for setting some common headers like offer sation head or maybe
or for responses.
If you want to log responses or 1 to handle errors globally I will show you how to add interceptors
in this lecture.
Let's go to the next genius file because this is the most global file we have an hour re-act app.
It's deep file where we actually start our react by mounting it to the dawn.
So here I now also want to import x years from the Xs package and all these X years imports actually
all share the same configuration.
So that is why we cannot also use access here an X is a special interest setter's object.
And again this will be then shared not only in this file but across all files in your project.
So it will affect all requests said from anywhere in your app.
There we can access the request object and now simply add use to register a new interceptor that interest
Sadr takes a function as an input which receives the conflict or the request you could say.
Now let's simply lock that request to be canceled for now so that we can see what's inside of it.
I'm calling it request but it mainly is just to request conflict that's important to keep in mind.
Now let's save this.
And if we go back to the app we may see something in the log.
Does ISDE request which was sent the request configuration at least you see the headers which are added
and.
Yeah.
This is our request.
This is what we got sent here when we got the posts.
Now something went wrong here though because we actually are blocking their requests right now.
In your interest setter function here you need to always return the request or the request.
Otherwise you're blocking the request.
Now of course you can also edit the request conflict before you return it.
That's the idea behind the interceptor.
You can add headers do stuff like that.
So now if we save this we get the posts and if I click on one you will see a number lock because number
request was sent and four dead.
The interceptor also ran even though it was fired from a different component.
As I said all components all areas of Europe are covered with that.
Now for dead interceptor here.
We can also pass a second function besides that request configuration changing function.
We can add a function which handles any errors.
So here we can log an error like this.
We should also return promise reject error here though so that we still forward it to our request as
you wrote it in a component where we can handle it again with the catch method does make sense if you
have some local task you want to do like show something on the UI but also globally you want to log
it in the log file which you send to a server or something like that.
So let's see how this works.
If I now save that file and now turn my posts my get posts you are invalid again.
Now you see something went wrong here but you don't actually see the costs a lot from the error handler
from the interceptor.
The reason for this is that this airier is related to sending the request.
For example if you had no Internet connectivity or something like that it should pop up.
So if you request sending Fales we can also add an interceptor to handle responses though we do in the
same way as you do it for the request but we use the response object on the interceptors object.
Then we also use two functions here one function and I'm copying it from above.
One function which will receive the success response we can also log it here and we should return it
so that we can all still use it in the component in the then block.
So that is one way we should return it and we all fetch errors and we should also recheck them here
so that we can still handle them in the catch block locally in a component.
Now if Dad added with that response and said or added and the error function being present now we go
back.
We actually see the log here and we still handle it locally.
So both works.
If I now go to the block container and turn my.
You are led to a valid you are ill again.
We see just a lock for the response.
So this is coming from the interceptor as you can tell by the file name and line number.
And this is another way of course of potentially manipulating that response here or logging it or doing
whatever you want.
So being able to define Deis interceptors can be quite powerful.
Again a very common use case is for the request interceptor to add some common headers.
For example an authorization header though we also have a different way of accessing global access configuration.
I'll show you how this works in the next picture.